## 01 - Always run the latest React Native version to access the new features
- So you'll get better performance, newer features and easier updating work

## 02- How to debug faster and better with Flipper
- In React Native you may need the debug two layers. One is JS part and the other one is Native part. To debug native part you can use XCode or Android Studio.
- It is a desktop app with a convenient interface, which directly integrates with your application’s JS and native code. This means that you no lon- ger have to worry about JS runtime differences and the performance caveats of using the Chrome Debugger.
- Flipper lets you preview logs from native code and track native crashes, so you don’t have to run Android Studio or Xcode to check what is happening on the native side!

## 03 - Avoid unused native dependencies
- Issue: You have a lot of dependencies in your project but you don’t know if you need all of them
- Improve the Time to Interactive of your app by removing the linking of unused dependencies.
- Solution: Find and remove unused dependencies. Use sth like `npx depcheck`
- Removing a few unused native dependencies ended up reducing both the size of the app bundle and TTI by around 17%.

## 04 - Optimize your application startup time with Hermes
## 05 - Optimize your Android application’s size with these Gradle settings
By default, a React Native application on Android consists of:
• four sets of binaries compiled for different CPU architectures,
• a directory with resources such as images, fonts, etc.,
• a JavaScript bundle with business logic and your React components,
• other files.

- Solution: Flip the boolean flag enableProguardInRe- leaseBuilds to true, adjust the Proguard rules to your needs, and test release builds for crashes. Also, flip enableSeparateBuildPerCPUArchitecture to true.

- Android is an operating system that runs on plenty of devices with dif- ferent architectures, so your build must support most of them. React Native supports four: armeabi-v7a, arm64-v8a, x86, and x86_64.

- Use aab instead of apk to solve that issue.

- Another way of decreasing the build size is by enabling Proguard. Proguard works in a similar way to dead code elimination from JavaScript - it gets rid of the unused code from third-party SDKs and minifies the codebase.

```js 
def enableProguardInReleaseBuilds = true 
```

- Another good practice is keeping your eye on resources optimization. Each application contains some svg or png graphics that can be opti- mized using free web tools.

## 06 - Experiment with the New Architecture of React Native

- Both new and old architecture is based on the communication between JavaScript and the native side. Currently, this communication is handled by the bridge. Let’s go over its limitations in order to easier understand the problems that the New Architecture is trying to solve.
• It is asynchronous: the JavaScript side submits data to a bridge and waits for the data to be processed by the native side
• It’s single-threaded (that’s why it’s important to not overload the JS thread and execute animations on the UI thread).
• It adds additional overhead when it comes to the serialization of data from JSON objects.

- Starting from React Native 0.68, developers can leverage new capa- bilities of the framework. Mainly the New Architecture consists of two pillars: Fabric and TurboModules. The first one is a new rendering sys- tem and the second one is a new way of writing native modules. 

- There are also two more that are essential to understanding how New Architecture works. The first, Codegen drastically improves DX by gen- erating a lot of native boilerplate code. And the second, JSI, is a C++ API that interacts with any JS engine.

### Codegen
A code generation tool that makes JS a source of truth by automating the compatibility between the JS and native sides. It allows for writing statically typed JS (called JS Spec) which is then used to generate the interface files needed by Fabric native components and TurboMod- ules. Spec consists of a set of types written in TypeScript or Flow that defines all the APIs provided by the native module. Codegen ensures type-safety as well as compile-time type safety, which means smaller code and faster execution as both realms can trust each other around validating the data every time. To find out more about it, refer to the docs.
### JSI
JSI is the foundation of the New Architecture, a C++ API for interacting with any JS engine. In contrast to the bridge which was asynchronous, JSI is synchronous which allows for invoking native functions faster. It lets JavaScript to hold references to C++ host objects and invoke methods directly on them. This removes the major overhead of asyn- chronous communication between JS and native by serializing objects using the bridge.
### Fabric
Fabric is React Native's new concurrent rendering system, a conceptual evolution of the legacy render system. The core principle is to unify more render logic in C++ to better leverage interoperability between platforms. Host Components like View, Text, etc. are now lazily initial- ized, resulting in faster startups.
Fabric allows us to take advantage of the features introduced in React 18. Instead of the bridge, we can use JSI which is synchronous by de- fault. For the time being, React Native is not removing the bridge com- pletely; it’s still available so developers can gradually adopt the New Architecture and JSI. However, using the bridge needs to be explicitly stated (by importing it), so modules not yet migrated won’t work. Meta is planning to soon allow apps to run in a completely bridge-less mode.
### TurboModules
This is a new way of writing native modules that also leverages the power of JSI, allowing for synchronous, and an order of magnitude faster data transfer from native to JS and vice versa. It is a rewrite of the communication layer between JavaScript and platform native modules like Bluetooth, Biometrics, etc. It also allows for writing native code for both platforms using C++ and introduces the lazy loading of modules to speed up your app startup time.
